[New Product] Added antiX Linux (#1748)
captn3m0/endoflife.date: products/antixlinux.md

---
permalink: /antix
alternate_urls:
-   /antixlinux
-   /antix-linux
title: antiX
category: os
releasePolicyLink: https://www.antixforum.com/forums/topic/when-is-end-of-support-for-stable-antix-versions-17-19/#post-26424

> iconSlug: mxlinux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
iconSlug: NA
```

The antix website doesn't re-use the mx logo, so we shouldn't either.

Reviewer 2: @alexkoster why did you mark this resolved ? did i miss anything about this one

Author: > @alexkoster why did you mark this resolved ? did i miss anything about this one
@usta My apologies - I think I pushed the wrong button on the mobile app but I went ahead and removed the iconSlug line in the latest update to the [antiX branch](https://github.com/alexkoster/endoflife.date/tree/antix).  Or feel free to let me know or make modifications to keep the iconSlug line but with a value of NA. 

I was working on a commit to the [simple-icons](https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons) repository for antiX and Devuan but was having some trouble with scaling and centering the SVG properly.  I hope to request help and make those commits in the future so antiX and Devuan will feature icons.

Thanks again for your time and please let me know if you have any further suggestions for changes or updates.

Reviewer: Adding `iconSlug: NA` back. We can have a separate PR to add the icon again once the simple-icons repo has them

activeSupportColumn: true
versionCommand: cat /etc/os-release

> releaseColumn: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
releaseColumn: true
```

Considering there is important (and surprising) information below about 22 being the latest release in the 21 release cycle - we should show the latest release in each cycle.

releaseDateColumn: true
realseLabel: "__RELEASE_CYCLE__ (__CODENAME__)"
purls:
-   purl: pkg:os/mxlinux
auto:
-   distrowatch: antix
    regex: '^Distribution Release: antiX (?P<major>\d)\.(?P<minor>\d)$'
releases:
-   releaseCycle: "21"
    codename: "Grup Yorum"
    releaseDate: 2021-10-31
    latest: "22"
    latestRelaseDate: 2022-10-19
    support: 2024-06-30
    eol: 2026-06-30
    link: https://antixlinux.com/antix-22-released/
-   releaseCycle: "19"
    codename: "Marielle Franco / Hannie Schaft / Manolis Glezos / Grup Yorum"
    releaseDate: 2019-10-17

>     latest: "19.4"

Reviewer 2: according to its website 19.5 exist : https://antixlinux.com/antix-19-5-point-release-update/

Author: @usta Thanks and good catch! Please see the updated [antix branch](https://github.com/alexkoster/endoflife.date/tree/antix) for this change.  Thanks for your time and please let me know if any further changes are needed.

    latestRelaseDate: 2021-05-21
    support: 2022-09-10
    eol: 2024-06-30

>     link: https://mxlinux.org/blog/mx-19-4-now-available/

Reviewer 2: wrong link, probably you mixed with mx linux

Author: @usta, good catch! I believe this has been corrected in the latest update to the [antix branch](https://github.com/alexkoster/endoflife.date/tree/antix) but please let me know if you'd like me to make any further changes.

-   releaseCycle: "17"
    codename: "Heather Heyer / Helen Keller"
    releaseDate: 2017-10-24
    latest: "17.4.1"
    latestRelaseDate: 2019-03-28
    support: 2020-06-05
    eol: 2022-06-30
    link: https://antixlinux.com/antix-17-4-1-now-out/
-   releaseCycle: "15"
    codename: "Killah P / Fusion / Berta Cáceres"
    releaseDate: 2015-06-30

>     latest: "16.3"

Reviewer: Couldn't find a source for 16 being part of 15 cycle

Author: @captn3m0 Both are based on Debian 8 "Jessie" and went [EOL at the same time](https://mxlinux.org/blog/mx15-and-mx16-are-end-of-life/). I'm happy to break them out as separate releaseCycles if you'd like.

Reviewer: Yes please, separate would be better.

Author: @captn3m0 See latest [commit](https://github.com/alexkoster/endoflife.date/commit/469e86b50603e6a867ad6506f8cf57757d72154c) on branch `antix` for separate 15 and 16 release cycles. Thanks for your time reviewing and please let me know if you'd like any further changes prior to merge.

    latestRelaseDate: 2017-12-21
    support: 2018-06-23
    eol: 2020-06-30
    link: https://antixlinux.com/antix-16-3-full-iso-files-available/

---

> > [antiX](https://antixlinux.com/) is a lightweight desktop-oriented systemd-free GNU/Linux distribution based on Debian's stable branch releases.  AntiX Linux uses the "antiX Magic" IceWM-based desktop to reduce system resource usage.  This allows for antiX to run smoothly on old and new hardware, both from live media and from an installation to disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [antiX](https://antixlinux.com/) is a lightweight desktop-oriented systemd-free GNU/Linux distribution based on Debian's stable branch releases. AntiX Linux uses the lightweight "antiX Magic" IceWM-based desktop which allows for antiX to run smoothly on old and new hardware.
```

> There are several releases of antiX supported concurrently.  These typically follow Debian's periods of active development and extended, long-term support, which provides security patches to a limited set of packages.  Often this equates to ~2 years of active support and 2 years of long-term security patch support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several releases of antiX supported concurrently.  These typically follow Debian's periods of active development and extended long-term support, which provides security patches to a limited set of packages.  Often this equates to ~2 years of active support and 2 years of long-term security patch support.
```

> While antiX defaults to using SysVinit as the default init daemon, runit is offered as an alternative.  AntiX officially supports 32-bit non-PAE (i586-compatible), 32-bit PAE (i686-compatible) and 64-bit x86 processors.  Like [MX Linux](https://antixlinux.com) antiX features many custom-developed tools.  These assist with tasks such as package management, bootloader configuration, and persistent bootable media creation making MX Linux a great choice for both live boot and disk installations.  Unlike MX Linux, antiX does not offer systemd as init and now as of [antiX-22](https://antixlinux.com/antix-22-released/) further removes systemd-derived components such as elogind (although eudevd is still used at this time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AntiX officially supports 32-bit non-PAE (i586-compatible), 32-bit PAE (i686-compatible) and 64-bit x86 processors.
```

A link for this would be nice as well.

---
permalink: /antix
alternate_urls:
-   /antixlinux
-   /antix-linux
title: antiX
category: os
releasePolicyLink: https://www.antixforum.com/forums/topic/when-is-end-of-support-for-stable-antix-versions-17-19/#post-26424
iconSlug: mxlinux
activeSupportColumn: true
versionCommand: cat /etc/os-release
releaseColumn: false
releaseDateColumn: true

> realseLabel: "__RELEASE_CYCLE__ (__CODENAME__)"

Reviewer 2: @alexkoster typo releaseLabel
Also if you put that long codenames it will look so messy in output

Reviewer 2: you will understand what i mean in preview after you fix releeaseLabel typo above

Author: @usta Good suggestion and good catch.  I corrected the releaseLabel line and reduced the codenames to a single name in the latest update to the [antix branch](https://github.com/alexkoster/endoflife.date/tree/antix).  Thanks again for your time and please let me know if you'd like me to make any further changes.
